---
layout: portfolio_entry
title: Social Road Network
image: /img/RoadNetworking.png
---
<h2> Road User Communication </h2>

<h4> Goal </h4>
<p> By developing a large, easily accessible communication platform for road users, we can hold people more accountable for their actions. Our hope is that if people tie their public identity to their driving abilities, drivers, cyclists, and pedestrians will be more inclined to drive safely. By encouraging everyone to drive in responsible ways and give feedback to each other in real time, we hope to reduce the number of automobile accidents and deaths on roads.
</p>
<h4>Issues </h4>
<ul>
<li>Roads are mainly self-policed by drivers, pedestrians, and cyclists.</li>
<li>The high level of anonymity allows for more careless driver behavior.</li>
<li>The channels of communication are limited, and do not allow for constructive feedback.</li>
<li>Accident/reckless driving reporting requires remembering a license plate and location.</li>
</ul>

<h3>"I'm definitely less likely to cut off someone I know"</h3>
<p><strong>Co-design Partner, parent</strong></p>

<h4>Solution</h4>

<p><strong>Develop a network in which people can interact as drivers, bicyclists, and pedestrians.</strong>
</p>
<p>A communication system with preset messages that can be verbally chosen from by a user would filter out any inappropriate (rude or hateful) language and express a user's concerns in a clear, constructive way. Our current methods of on-road communication involve horns, flashing headlights, and obscenities. While these methods convey a limited range of ideas, they are often ambiguous and do not use driver identity. Quick messages could convey information to a wider range and be less likely to be brushed off or exacerbate the situation.
</p>
<p>In order to report dangerous behavior, drivers must follow the reckless driver, remember a license plate, and call the authorities. By minimizing the activation energy required to report dangerous behavior, drivers will be empowered to take action and protect their roads. The users we have co-designed with are, in the moment, willing to provide ample information about the threat (car color, current location, license plate if visible, etc). After exiting the effect range of the threat, they rarely feel a need to report it. A concern for this reporting system would be false positives. However, people generally understand the if several users report the same situation, action could be taken.
</p>
<p>A final use of this network would be tracking positioning of all nearby road users using their Bluetooth devices. Many accidents are a result of thwarted expectations or limited visibility. To address this problem, we can alert users to others, so that they can react to situations that could have surprised them. This can be as simple as alerting a car that is preparing to make a right turn to a bicyclist who approaches on the right. This would encourage the driver to pause a few seconds before turning and keep everyone safe. Ideally this system would adjust its sensitivity for the situation in which it is used. Urban drivers, cyclists, and pedestrians do not need a warning for every other road user, but a user in a very rural and dark setting may alerts for any pedestrian or cyclist who might elude their vision.
</p>

<h4>What's out there</h4>
<p>The current wearable technology utilizes people’s fascination with their own behavior and desire to record their daily habits. The Bluetooth and GPS abilities are growing in popularity. Much of the same technology can be applied to this project.
</p>
<p><strong>Bitlock</strong> is a keyless bike lock that works with a mobile app to unlock or lock a bike given the proper password. The lock is located on one of the wheels and comes with a GPS tracker in case the bike is ever stolen. 
</p>
