---
title: Jarvis for Your Car
image: /img/solution_images/Jarvis.png
anchor: jarvis
flag: "solution"
---
<h2>Verbal Driver-Car Interface</h2>

<h4>Goal</h4>
<p>Utilize voice recognition and audible alerts to create a highly interactive system that acts as the “perfect passenger” during commutes. The system would be customized and learn how the driver likes to be interacted with and adjust accordingly.
</p>

<h4>Problem</h4>
<ul>
<li> Lack of engagement with their commutes and driving experience.</li>
<li> Desire for customizability and control for what information is presented to the driver. </li>
<li> Limitations of human reaction time and awareness. </li>
</ul>

<h4>Solutions</h4>
<p>A verbal car interface that acts as a secondary passenger without the annoyances of being a backseat driver. Additionally, the ideal passenger would encourage better driving habits, such as seatbelt use and measures to maintain proper visibility in all external conditions. By creating an interface specifically for the needs of a driver behind the wheel, we would eliminate much of the unnecessary distractions that the currently available technology comes with. A centralized hub of all data and information relevant to the driving experience.
</p>
<p>Design an interface that is far more conversant and able to take verbal cues from the driver to adjust to the situation. An activation command like “Okay Google” could be used to tell the GPS system that the driver knows he is redirecting the route. Another instance would be a driver familiar with the majority of the route but only needing to know “is it a left or a right turn to Sudbury Farms from here?” which signifies to the system that was always live, that the driver would then like its input.
</p>
<p>Verbal activation would be a hands free method of easily accessing information for the driver and can tap into directions, points of interest, cellular applications, and car data. Information that would otherwise require clicking through multiple layers of different mediums would be able to be accessed through a simple statement from the user.
</p>

<h4>What’s out there</h4>
<p>SIRI, Cortana, Google Now are the latest in verbal interfaces. However, they are not really intended for the in-car setting, since you often need to view responses and press buttons in order to interact with it. A heads-up, streamlined verbal interface for drivers is definitely in demand.
</p>

<h4>Evidence of Impact</h4>
<ul>
<li>Popularity of SIRI</li>
<li>Targets high priority age group, young adults</li>
<li>Benefit from integration with smart phones</li>
<li>Drowsiness, Boredom</li> 
<li>Distracted Driving 
<a href='http://www.nhtsa.gov/DOT/NHTSA/NRD/Articles/HF/Reducing%20Unsafe%20behaviors/810594/pages/2Objective1.htm#q2'> NHTSA and VTT, 2011</a>.</li>
<li>Heads up effects</li>
<li>Seatbelts use
<p>“In the US in 2000, a time when about half of fatally injured occupants were unbelted. If the half who were unbelted had been wearing belts, 42% of them would not have died. This is equivalent to a 21% reduction in total driver and front passenger fatalities.”
<a href='http://www.scienceservingsociety.com/ts/text/ch12.htm'>Traffic Safety, 2004</a>.</p></li>
</ul>
